# Fargo ToolBox
__second release notes__

*This software suite is developed by* [Clément Robert](mailto:clement.robert@protonmail.com) *for* [FARGO](http://fargo.in2p3.fr/)*, a project started by Frédéric Masset.*


## Content

### longRunGenerator
longRunGenerator creates more job files and launch them on the go in an append-chain. It gathers information provided in an input file formatted as longRun_input_example.par


### duplicate
```
duplicate base target
```
copies the file tree of _$base_ into a new directory _$target_. It excludes content from _$base_/output/ and OAR output files.
It also automatically edit all files newly copied to replace every occurence of _$base_ by _$target_ so the new simulation could in principle be ran immediatly.
Nonetheless, a security has been added to prevent over-enthousiastic users from deleting their results in _$base_ in case something went wrong during the copy or the editing : the original executable files are deprieved of their "x" permission so it has to be turned back on manually using chmod before liftoff.

duplicate handles an optional -r flag to allow the copy of files required for a restart on the go.

### slaughter

examples :
```
slaughter
```
kills every jobs that match the $USER name, after confirmation

```
slaughter -p label
```
kills every jobs that match the $USER name and the given label. **-p** has aliases (**-P**|**--picky**).


### filter_restart
Run this after a duplication in restart mode to eliminate redundant outputs in planet related files.


### gen_migrationrate
translates date from orbitNNN.dat to
| time | semi-major-axis | \dot{semi-major-axis} | theoretical radial velocity |


###stitchup
can merge 2 simulations (inner disk + outer disk) to a single one



## Python (plotting tools) content

### parse2dto1d
This program turns 2d output files generated by fargo into 1d integrated (and azimuthally averaged) profiles that are better suited for plotting, analysis and scp'ing.

### augmentedmap
plots a background 2d field plus additional data.

## Macros 

some examples of useful macros can be installed running the following :

```
cp doc/macros ~/.fargo_macros
```

then copying the following lines to your ~/.bashrc file
```
if [ -f ~/.fargo_macros ]; then
    . ~/.fargo_macros
fi
```


## Installation

recommanded method :
copy the source in the directory of your choice

```
git clone https://github.com/neutrinoceros/fargotb.git
```
then
```
mkdir ~/bin
export PATH=$PATH:$(readlink -e ~/bin/)
cd fargotb
make
```

the script makes symbolic links for each executable file and put them into your ~/bin/ directory.